The Globetrotters

Lawrence Blair
For more than 40 years, this English-born, Bali-based anthropologist and explorer has been participating and leading marine expeditions throughout the Indonesian archipelago. The second time he visited, back in 1972, was with his now late brother Lorne and some funding from Ringo Starr. Their mission? To make a documen­tary series-the groundbreaking Ring of Fire-that included encounters with cannibal headhunters and the funeral ceremony for the last king of the Toraja people, who believe their ancestors were descended from the stars. These days much of his time is split between hosting private yacht charters (he once did a submersible dive in Raja Ampat Islands with Oxford professor Richard Dawkins) and lecturing on National Geographic and Silversea cruises. But this fall Blaft will be aboard the eight-cabin Kudantl Explorer-an experienced expedition ship whose crew know exactly where the best surf spots are-as it sails to the Banda Islands, his all-time favorite castaway destination.

Oprah Winfrey
She might be considered the godmother of many things: talk shows, self-help, female empowerment-the list goes on. And now one of the nation's richest self­made women, once dubbed the queen of all media, is. the official godmother of a cruise ship, Holland America's 2,650-passenger Nieuw Statendam. When she launched the ship with a one-off Girls Getaway cruise to the Caribbean earlier this year, it sold out in minutes, barely longer than the standing ovation after her rousing speech at last year's Golden Globes. Now guests get a series of programs inspired by 0, The Oprah Magazine, from meaningful meditation and energizing movement sessions by the pool to O-approved transformational videos and an Oprah Reading Room, a nod to her wildly influential book club. Winfrey has been working with Holland America for a few years, curating a series of Adventure of Your Life voyages, most recently a trip to Alaska with experts including "wisdom teacher" Shefali Tsabary and sound-bathing therapist Sara Auster. Cruising, like politics, television, and social media, has entered Oprah's orbit.

68 Conde Nast Traveler July/August 2019
