The Globetrotters

Jon Bon Jovi
When it comes to entertainment at sea, oceangoers may be more familiar with a certain type of tuxedo­clad crooner inspired by Frank Sinatra and Tony Bennett. But if any cruise line was going to invite the stadium-filling New Jersey-born singer behind Slippery When Wet dn board, it was Norwegian. The line has graffiti-style murals, rock-climbing walls, and no dress codes on its ships, preferring to encourage informal, freestyle gatherings. The Bon Jovi frontman will be headlining the Runaway to Paradise voyage, from Barcelona to Palma, Mallorca, on the Norwegian Pearl in August, performing a full-blown concert backed by an 11-piece band on the pool deck. There's also an acoustic set, during which he'll take questions from the audience, accompanied by longtime tour photographer David Bergman and producer Obie O'Brien.As for his dress code, that's easy:The singer has worn the same Reebok Allen Iverson sneakers onstage for the past 15 years.

Patricia Urqiola
Over the past two decades, the prolific Spanish-born designer and architect has quietly become one of the most successful names in her field. Her ergonomic creations are playful yet have real substance, often experimenting with color and contours. You may have tip-toed across her geometric ceramic tiles, dropped into the Scandi-inspired Lilo Lounge chairs she made for Moroso, or admired her floaty, snow-white cutouts at Mandarin Oriental Barcelona. Urquiola's Fjord armchair is part of the permanent collection at MoMA, and the hotel 11 Sereno, whose interiors she designed, was the most anticipated opening on the shores of Lake Como in years. So it was a coup when Celebrity Cruises persuaded her to add her name to the design roll call for its pioneering C􀀃lebrity Edge ship. The line has always had fun with its cruises, going the extra mile in the way its staff interact with passengers and deftly upscaling the small-boat experience. The billion-dollar Edge is a game changer that aims to disrupt dusty preconceptions about cruising-there are immersive theater shows, botanical-inspired cocktails, a drone obstacle course, and the open-air Magic Carpet platform, which scoots up and down decks outside the hull. As for Urquiola's contributions, well, she has given Mediterranean restaurant Cyprus a hot-summer ambience and planted a towering installation of foliage above the bar at Eden, a hybrid space that mutates from daytime hangout to nocturnal performance venue. It's everything you never thought you'd see on a cruise ship._ And that is exactly the point.

66 Conde Nast Traveler July/August 2019
